Add ZooKeeper operator docs (2.1.1) (#3971)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.1/projects/applications/catalog-applications/custom-resources-workspace-catalog/zookeeper/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: ZooKeeper
title: ZooKeeper
menuWeight: 5
excerpt: Deploying ZooKeeper in a project
---

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting started
```

Author: fixed in cfa2be8cb5c4e4a2631c3ad1c19923ea6495cc86

To get started with creating ZooKeeper clusters in your project namespace, you first need to deploy the [ZooKeeper operator](../../../../../workspaces/applications/catalog-applications/zookeeper-operator/) in the workspace where the project exists.

Once you have the ZooKeeper operator deployed, you can create ZooKeeper Clusters by applying a `ZookeeperCluster` custom resource in a project's namespace.

A [Helm chart](https://github.com/pravega/zookeeper-operator/tree/master/charts/zookeeper) exists in the ZooKeeper operator repository that can assist with deploying ZooKeeper clusters.

> ### Example Deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example deployment
```

Author: fixed in cfa2be8cb5c4e4a2631c3ad1c19923ea6495cc86

1.  Set the `PROJECT_NAMESPACE` environment variable to the name of your project’s namespace:

    ```bash
    export PROJECT_NAMESPACE=<project namespace>
    ```

1.  Create a ZooKeeper Cluster custom resource in your project namespace

    ```yaml
    kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: zookeeper.pravega.io/v1beta1
    kind: ZookeeperCluster
    metadata:
      name: zookeeper
      namespace: ${PROJECT_NAMESPACE}
    spec:
      replicas: 1
    EOF
    ```

> 

Reviewer 2: I think it would be really useful to have an example here that shows what this results in and how to check that it worked.  

For example, The operator documentation page has this very nice example:   https://github.com/pravega/zookeeper-operator#manual-deployment-1

Could we possibly duplicate some of that here?   I think it would make this documentation much more complete and usable.  

At the very minimum, can we please include the resources section (and links) from the workspace page on this page also? I know it's a bit redundant, but I think this page is where a developer would be looking for more information on how to configure zookeeper, how to access it,  and how to tell if it deployed, and it's a bit annoying to have to go back to the operator install page (which would be a one time thing per cluster, right?)

Reviewer: Just something simple like, @cneth ? : 

Check your ZooKeeper cluster using kubectl: 

kubectl get zk

Author: I took a stab at that in cfa2be8cb5c4e4a2631c3ad1c19923ea6495cc86, I can always add more like describing the cluster and viewing all the associated resources!

Reviewer 2: This looks great.  TY!

> ## Deleting ZooKeeper Clusters

Reviewer: caps styles for heading is sentence style I think.

```suggestion
## Deleting ZooKeeper clusters
```

Author: fixed in cfa2be8cb5c4e4a2631c3ad1c19923ea6495cc86

1.  View `ZookeeperClusters` in all namespaces:

    ```bash
    kubectl get zookeeperclusters -A
    ```

> 1.  Deleting a specific `ZookeeperCluster`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Delete a specific `ZookeeperCluster`:
```

Author: fixed in cfa2be8cb5c4e4a2631c3ad1c19923ea6495cc86

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: ZooKeeper
title: ZooKeeper
menuWeight: 5
excerpt: Deploying ZooKeeper in a project
---

## Getting started

To get started with creating ZooKeeper clusters in your project namespace, you first need to deploy the [ZooKeeper operator](../../../../../workspaces/applications/catalog-applications/zookeeper-operator/) in the workspace where the project exists.

> Once you have the ZooKeeper operator deployed, you can create ZooKeeper Clusters by applying a `ZookeeperCluster` custom resource in a project's namespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you deploy the ZooKeeper operator, you can create ZooKeeper Clusters by applying a `ZookeeperCluster` custom resource in a project's namespace.
```

A [Helm chart](https://github.com/pravega/zookeeper-operator/tree/master/charts/zookeeper) exists in the ZooKeeper operator repository that can assist with deploying ZooKeeper clusters.

### Example deployment

> This example deployment walks you through deploying a ZooKeeper cluster in a project namespace. After following the steps below, you should have a running ZooKeeper cluster ready for use in your project's namespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to deploy a ZooKeeper cluster in a project namespace. This procedure results in a running ZooKeeper cluster ready for use in your project's namespace.
```

1.  Set the `PROJECT_NAMESPACE` environment variable to the name of your project’s namespace:

    ```bash
    export PROJECT_NAMESPACE=<project namespace>
    ```

1.  Create a ZooKeeper Cluster custom resource in your project namespace

    ```yaml
    kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: zookeeper.pravega.io/v1beta1
    kind: ZookeeperCluster
    metadata:
      name: zookeeper
      namespace: ${PROJECT_NAMESPACE}
    spec:
      replicas: 1
    EOF
    ```

1.  Check the status of your ZooKeeper cluster using `kubectl`:

    ```bash
    kubectl get zk
    ```

    ```text
    NAME        REPLICAS   READY REPLICAS    VERSION   DESIRED VERSION   INTERNAL ENDPOINT    EXTERNAL ENDPOINT   AGE
    zookeeper   3          3                 0.2.13    0.2.13            10.100.200.18:2181   N/A                 94s
    ```

## Deleting ZooKeeper clusters

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Follow these steps to delete the Zookeeper clusters.

```
